---
author: H
categories: []
tags: []
---
Because there's such a lack of information (both online and from my IRL doctor) about what I should do regarding HRT, I basically had to make my own assessment and decision.

## _DISCLAIMER_
***I'm not a doctor. I don't even play one on TV. Nothing I say should be interpreted as anything other than _my personal experience and thoughts_. It's not medical advice and _should not_ be treated as such.***

I don't know if it's still common or not, but one of the oft-repeated phrases I heard when I was starting to transition was YMMV (your mileage may vary). I think that's very much the best assessment of the situation here as well. I wish I could just tell you "it'll take x months of being off HRT". It just doesn't work that way. In my humble opinion an individual's doctors, via tests and a doctor-patient relationship, _should_ be able to offer a better assessment for their particular patient, but as my experience has shown, even that's not the case.

So starting from that position, where could I go? Well, for better or worse, I know my body. I knew that things _probably_ weren't producing the "stuff" I would need for this in any significant quantity or quality. After being on HRT for so long, it's a little hard to remember what things used to be like in that regard. Actually, this is a really good thing. Part of the relief I get from transition is _not_ remembering. 

Ultimately, I think once someone has been doing HRT for any appreciable amount of time, coming off is going to be a necessity for something like this. I think doctors told me that I "might not have to stop" because of course, sure, there's always a small chance that a pregnancy can occur, as long as original genital structures are physically intact. Stranger things have happened. In my experience, doctors also seem to have more experience (and perhaps patient demand) with the opposite angle: preventing unwanted pregnancies. My doctor is fond of repeating _even to me_ that "testosterone is not birth control", and I'm not even on testosterone. Maybe that's the issue here. Maybe doctors are just so focused on _that_ aspect of patient care, considering that a patient might _want_ to create a pregnancy is almost never on the radar. Maybe they just really don't have experience with that.

What about actually discontinuing HRT? For me, it wasn't too complicated. I just stopped (with approval and support of my doctor, of course). I felt pretty unchanged for a week or two, but then I very much started to notice. The biggest things I noticed were the things that tend to cause the most dysphoria for me. Surprisingly, things I had more or less forgotten about. HRT had done wonders in terms of atrophying certain body parts. After discontinuing, that atrophy stopped, rapidly. More rapidly than I was prepared for. It's been a real mental challenge to be dealing with that again. I'd say that's definitely something to brace for. The dysphoria _will_ come back. I feel like it's almost worse now because before transitioning, I didn't know anything better. If you've spent your entire life in a dark room, you wouldn't know light at all. Stopping HRT is like going back into that dark room, only now, you know what light is.

I wish I knew more ways to cope. More strategies to help keep myself above water. But it's hard. It's really really hard. It hurts. A lot. I'm frequently just driven to tears at random times, for no obvious reason. One might thing the obvious solution would be to remember the bigger picture. This pain and discomfort isn't for naught. It's for something important. It's a necessary step towards being a mother. The problem is _right now_ there's nothing. It's 100% sacrifice and discomfort, 0% reward. We don't even have so much as a positive test right now. We're just blasting down a pitch black road in the middle of the night. Trying to keep the car moving and the headlights on. Right now, all we see are the dashed center lines and more pavement.
