---
author: H
categories: [baby, general, dysphoria]
tags: []
title: Not Me
---
I've had a _very_ rough few days. Partially related to slow (read: nonexistent) return on important test results from the reproductive clinic. More on _that_ in a bit. Partially related to just dealing with the results of coming off hormones. I guess I didn't really consider the breadth of impact it would have. There are the physical aspects of it but there are also considerable mental aspects, too. I'm embarrassed to admit that I didn't really feel like I'd feel any differently. 

I've struggled trying to figure out exactly how to put the feeling. I bounced around. At first I thought, "ugh, it's literally like being sent **back** through puberty again." But that alone doesn't quite cover it. No, it's deeper than that. That might be the best way to describe it physically, but mentally there's more to it. I struggled and struggled. Maybe it's more along the lines that I don't feel like a woman maybe? Yes, but it's so much deeper than that: I don't feel like _myself_.

Everything feels different now. Feeling horny feels different. Sex feels different. Worse than different. It feels like it's not me. I feel like I'm feeling someone else's feelings. Of course, _on_ hormones, it's a different story. I feel comfortable. I feel connected. Genitals and various physical features aside, my body, and more importantly my mind, feels like me.

Most days lately, I genuinely don't know if I'm strong enough to keep doing this. I think, maybe there would be a better time where I'd be more grounded. But I don't think there's ever a time when anyone is grounded enough to sail through something like this. I've certainly read anecdotes here and there of trans women who _have_ just stopped. They couldn't keep doing it. My heart breaks hearing that. God only knows how hard they tried to hold on before throwing in the towel. Will I be able to hold on?

The following is something I've never really shared with anybody because I'm ashamed. I imagine I get up in the mornings like most people. Unlike most people though, I can immediately feel my body. I can feel where everything is. What's there, what isn't. And I feel like I've woke up to some insane reality in which I wasn't born female. Different days come with varying levels of disbelief, but the disbelief is there. This _overwhelming_ sadness of "holy shit...wtf is going on?! This can't be real. This can't be real." I have that feeling every morning, and I get up. I get dressed. I make my coffee, and I go to work like any other responsible adult human. I've got bills to pay and responsibilities after all. I never really considered what a challenge that is because I've never really known anything else. That's my every morning: waking up and climbing over that hill.

I try to do my best with all of this. I've been trying to say yes to anything that might help me to relax or feel better, even if I'd normally "restrict" myself. Going out for lunch at work? Do it. Want ice cream after work? Do it. That little thing I've been meaning to get to make something easier or simpler? Get it.

I also try to imagine holding our baby. I try to imagine what it will feel like. Fortunately I remember holding my friend's baby when she was very little and calming her down when she was crying. I felt so natural and so accomplished. I try to imagine myself as a mom to our own baby and feeling that natural feeling all the time. I tell my fiance all the time that we need to push pettiness out of our lives. So someone on the road did something dumb. Let it go. The baby wants and needs to be loved in a calm, caring, nurturing environment. I hold the belief that our baby is waiting to make sure we're ready to do that. When we have that stuff fully under control, it'll be ready and it will come. 

---

Oh, but back to the reproductive clinic. When I originally went to do the semen analysis test they told me it would be 5-7 business days before we had results. Ok, sure. Given the novel of instructions on how to take and deliver the sample, I was under the impression that this was a very time sensitive process. I was wrong. At day 8 after hearing _nothing_ I contacted them and received a fairly non-specific response that my "levels" were within range. I wasn't sure if they were talking about me or my fiance. I wasn't under the impression that they were testing "levels" of anything with me.

After day 12 even my fiance had lost patience. He poked them himself, and actually got a specific answer. My test looked good apparently (a relief) and his tests were also looking good. Ultimately we're on track, or as much as we can be with something like this.

I know patience is a virtue, but it rubbed me the wrong way that a clinic whose sole purpose is reproductive services/medicine wouldn't be more communicative and "on it" with their patients. Having a child all on your own is stressful. Needing to use services like theirs in addition to that? Personally I would've preferred a lot more interaction. I've been a nervous wreck this whole time.

---

That's my update on things for now. I'm plugging away the best I can. TL;DR? Do not underestimate how much transition and hormone therapy might have been helping you. Trust me, without it, you'll feel so, so much worse.
